---
layout: subpage
title: JIBO
category: [blog, tech]
---
In Sherry Tuckle’s TED talk, <a href="http://www.ted.com/talks/sherry_turkle_alone_together">Connected but alone?</a>, she observes that the way we are looking at relationships is changing. People want to connect but only if the connection can be had at a distance, in amounts they can control. This need to control how we are perceived to others, (through means of editing what we say) in my opinion, highlights an insecurity we have to not be faulty. In the digital age, you can be whoever you want to be.

This purposeful distancing also makes us more prone to feeling alone. How we feel <a href="http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0069841">when using Facebook</a>, <a href="http://devpressed.com/">working in competitive online industries</a> and when <a href="http://psychcentral.com/news/2012/05/22/depression-linked-with-more-internet-use/38998.html">using the internet in general</a> is affecting our relationships and mental health. Is this the connected life?

The latest social robot, JIBO, promises more than just individual companionship and basic administrative role-playing, it’s promises companionship to an entire family. In MIT Professor Cynthia Breazeal’s video pledge to crowd-fund JIBO, she rallies potential supporters,

<blockquote>
	<p>… we need your help; to build JIBO; to bring it to the world and to grow the community. Let’s work together to make JIBO truly great. And together, we can <strong>humanize technology</strong>.</p>
</blockquote>

Tuckle’s talk is focused on exactly this. We are now seeking relationships with machines that are designed to be humanistic instead of looking to each other for these connections. These machines are programmed by someone to nod their heads or beep deeply in a effort to mimic human empathy. Do we want empathy or do we want mimicked empathy?

<hr class="small">

As a result of the flurry of social apps we have created, we have become unable to sit by ourselves without filling the empty moments with other people’s lives. This addiction doesn’t come out of a desire to deepen connection and occasionally comes at the expense of the actual person in front of us. We have confused solitude with isolation and as a result, could potentially be leaving ourselves with only one: isolation.

<blockquote class="large">
	<p>If we don’t teach our children to be alone, they will only know how to be lonely.</p>
</blockquote>

While I don’t believe that exploring the idea of something like JIBO is not worthwhile, Breazeal paints a world in which technology is more than just a tool. Technology needn’t be that romanticized—it’s impacts are obvious and profound. The importance of the role that tech plays in our lives should always be questioned and frequently.