---
layout: subpage-simple
title: A New Way of Communication
---
One of the biggest challenges over the course of a Designer’s career is understanding how to communicate. Communication could encompass the traditional methods, like speaking or writing, but it could also be the process by which you work. By fine-tuning your process and keeping communication open, you can transform your end result and keep yourself stress-free.

The last thing I want to do is be known as is the difficult designer, an archetype that I’m not too fond of. This wall between developers and designers can cause unnecessary friction and this friction will be seen in your work (perhaps in subtle, yet still noticeable ways.)

There are three small things I’ve adjusted to better work with my team: my files, my schedule, and my participation in stand-ups.

## My files match my process

At some stage in a project, Designers can often find themselves with a giant “final” mock-up typically named something like Dashboard-FINAL-final-revised.psd. They will refer to this mock-up in presentations and show it to developers at the start of the project and hope that that will be exactly what will be produced.

The downside of this approach is that this mock-up can be outdated fairly quickly in agile teams. Communication between developers and designers slows down because conversations must be had about what parts of a mock-up are relevant and when it was last updated. In addition to this, if you’re lucky enough to have a quick feedback loop with your users, you’ll find yourself making more changes than necessary to that one final mock-up and creating more work for yourself to keep everything updated.

While ‘ideal mock-ups’ are great for exploratory phases, I have found them to become less useful over time. To solve this, I split my mock-ups into components (much like a developer) and have moved the majority of my work through Github. Our team tracks merchant feedback, bugs and new iterations through issues so I needed to find a way that worked within that framework.

This is my current file structure for the Facebook channelWhen I work on a portion of Shopify admin, I file it in my Dropbox folder labeled by the Github issue number. This is a small thing I do but I have found this to solve a number of different problems:

* I no longer have to communicate to developers which portion of a mock-up is relevant. The solution is isolated and it’s the only file in the folder. 
* Assets are also exported into the issue folder, which means developers don’t have to search in any other place for them, and they always have the one that’s in the file.
* In every Github issue, the problem is restated. There is a link to the assets and files and a screenshot of the mock-up just in case. Developers do not need to confirm if it is the correct file or if it is updated.
* When issues are closed, the corresponding Dropbox folder is moved into an archived folder. At any given time, I know exactly which issues are in production and which are currently being worked on. Less headache keeping track because the system keeps track for me.

## My scope is defined by ‘done‘ not ‘perfect’

The majority of a Designer’s work lives in an iterative phase. To ensure that design is always evolving visibly (for users this can be very reassuring), work with what you know and make informed assumptions about the rest. It’s not ideal for a team to be stalled by a Designer, design-led or not. Time and place is critical to ensuring smooth releases.

* I ask constraint-discovery questions constantly. When tackling the project I immediately try to find the information which will affect the execution of the solution. What are the business constraints (we need this before Christmas)? What are the technical constraints (we do not have this data)? This allows me to pick out the what can be solved immediately vs. what needs more time.
* I design solutions for what can be immediately solved according to the constraints right now. For example, if I was redesigning the Facebook admin section and I have two weeks, now is not the time to explore ten solutions of the underlying architecture. Rather, I find the best solution for one portion of the admin that can be done within one week factoring in testing, feedback and QA time.
* Creating realistic solutions (i.e. “quick wins”) buys me time. I use this time left to work on strategy and innovation. This is when I start looking at the larger problem of the admin architecture and piece it into smaller digestible pieces. I take these pieces and work with engineering to figure out what’s required to build it out, and then I factor these pieces into our sprint schedule. Eventually, those pieces become quick wins and the process starts over again.

## My participation in stand-ups is proactive

Many development teams have some sort of stand-up or SCRUM process. Things can get pretty granular sidetracked here, although, participating and fully absorbing myself in stand-ups is really valuable. I fully subscribe to the idea of attending and being involved in your team stand-ups inclusive of all disciplines.

* I ask myself, “In which ways does this affect the user?” “What other edge cases does this bug affect?” “What would the product look like if this bug was never allowed to exist?” “How would that change the product?” Through these questions, I can anticipate design problems I can address for future sprints.
* Stand-ups give me the opportunity to understand why things are progressing the way they are. I am constantly searching for potential road bumps so I can act quickly before anything becomes a bigger issue than it should be.
* Fully participating in stand-ups gives me presence on the team. Being active amongst a group of developers gives us more visibility into each other’s work. Simply being there (and paying attention) helps maintain relationships and stronger relationships tend to produce stronger results.

<hr class="small">

These are simple ways I have adjusted my process to suit my team but it is changing everyday. I am constantly analyzing the way I work, looking for opportunities to eliminate unnecessary conversations or problems before they happen. I find that this is one of the easiest ways to facilitate the success of your work.

Next time you are looking for ways to improve your workflow, look beyond written and spoken communication and include your working process. As your idea of communication becomes more holistic, you will find that you can easily find a way to a seat at the table.