---
title: Untitled (Bullet Journal)
date: 2018-01-22 13:00:00 -05:00
categories:
- blog
- life
layout: post
twitter_desc: Words go here
twitter_image: 90-00card.jpg
---
My bullet journal has inevitably been the largest change in my tools in the past two years. I originally wrote about it here but I figured I'd give you a run-down below of how I've used it over the years .

# Benefits

- Writing things down makes it easier for you to learn it long-term
- Your mind is pretty deceptive

# Spreads

The way you lay a certain page out in your jrounal is called a 'spread,' which is a bad thing to call it because it's an incorrect usage in the book world, but we'll let it pass. I currently use the following spreads:

- Dailies

This is how I log everything on a daily basis. It's meant to be quick, but when I attend meetings, my notes tend to be rather long. In emetings, I note down WHO said it and what they said, as well as actionable things I need to do in roder to get back to them. (Natural feebdack loops)

I also journal everyday about any decisions I've made in my career or personal life along with my emotional and mental health. I'm trying to get better at detailing my decisions like how they're described in this blog post from Farnam street.

- Bikini Weeklies

I have devised a weekly review for myself to gauge how well I'm doing with my fitness goals to keep a steady eye on how my diet and stress levels are affecting the way I work-out. This is a pretty intense thing to do for competitiors, but it helps me keep progress and keep myself accountable.

- Monthy

On my monthly side I have an social energy log running alongside my days. I typically don't see my friends more than three times a week. Anything more than that, I can get very distracted and too tired to focus on my other goals. 

All that being said, I live a fairly default social life (Airbnb guests + my gym friends). 

I also track overall tasks for the month on this spread.

- Bikini Monthly, Measurements and Diet spreads

Again, back to my fitness goals- I take stock of my muscle measurements, my diet and macros, and supplements taken to fix and correct things when things so awry. 

- Monthly reviews

Every month I read over

- Gratitude log
Every day I write down three things that I'm grateful for and/or that have made me happy that day. This log I've been keeping for about a year and is undoutably how I've maintained a level head in some very stressful times. Sometimes it's a struggle to write down three things, and when that's happening, I know i'm going through a rough patch so I solve it by seeing my friends more or focusing on self care.

- Indexes Book list, blog posts, 

I keep a running list of ideas I've come up with, blog posts I want to write, and books I want to read. When I come up with an idea for a blog post, it typically comes with a set of ideas or a rough outline so I write it down on the day I come up with it. In the index, I note the page number of the day so I can find it later.

That day, the index stays clean, but I can always reference what I was thinking about and where it came from when I'm ready to write about it.

# Spreads I ditched

These are spreads I tried but they didn't work out for whatever reason:
- Yearly

(wasn't sure where I was going with this to be honest. I thought I would note big dates but then it became a travel calendar, but then I stopped caring altogether.)

- Weekly to do lists

Assigning to-dos on a certain date helped me do them faster. I found that in a weekly sprea I tended to leave everything to Saturday, which made for a very busy and boring saturday.


# How to start

Not every bullet journal is the same and certainly this list can seem overwhelming. Looking at it on instagram under the hashtag bulletjournal is unsettling as well, because there are people who are using it more like a glorified scrapbook than anything else.

In general, I use my bullet journal to:
- make it easier for me to remember things
- capture my ideas and make it easier for me to create
- keep me on track with my goals and keep myself accountable

If a spread isn't doing one of those three things, I don't write it down or do it. Similarly, I very rarely decorate it. I think at that point you're using it to procrastinate.

In any case, the only spread you should start with is the daily spread. TRy this for about a month and then add your monthly spread. Every month try a new spread until your journal eventually morphs into something usuable for you–I've found it has become more and more useful and easy as I use it. Like everything.

Have fun with your journal!