---
title: Untitled (Diversity)
date: 2018-01-08 13:00:00 -05:00
categories:
- blog
- management
- leadership
layout: post
twitter_desc: Words go here
twitter_image: 88-00card.jpg
---

<em><strong>Preface #1:</strong> I do not speak for any company I've worked for. My intention is not to criticize them either... this issue is widespread across the industry. I also don't work there anymore so I have no idea what it's like now.</em>

<em><strong>Preface #2:</strong> I do not profess to be an expert. I didn't have access to experts about this topic so a lot of what I talk about I learned through my own research. I'm strictly writing about my own experience.</em>

<em><strong>Preface #3:</strong> I've heard this criticism before: a lot of my work/writing is focused on a singular gender dimension. This is true. Becoming a feminist started late in my life and it was through this lens that I started to think about diversity. I still think rising tides raise all boats but I don't deny that I can be better.</em>

<em><strong>Preface #4:</strong> I live and work in Canada. Many cultural issues prevalent in tech take after the U.S.A.'s culture for obvious reasons. Canada and U.S.A.'s cultural contexts and working cultures differ and sometimes differ greatly.</em>

<em><strong>Preface #5:</strong> If this comes across as defensive, it's because it is.</em>

The tech industry's output suffers from it's lack of a diverse workforce. It impacts the way we build products (and what we ship) and how we grow our businesses. This is not an article debating the necessity of a diverse workforce as this has been covered many times, but rather, a primer into this world for someone who is learning about it as I was last year.

Below I attempt to outline the problems I encountered in building a team to match the speed of the company it worked for:

# The Problems

## Growth and Scale

There are tech companies who haven't found a business model or product and so turnover tends to be either quite high or non-existant (just founders). There are also tech companies simply looking for an exit. These circumstances change the context and invite their own challenges, so I'm mostly going to talk about compananies stable enough to hire employees with the intention of keeping them long-term.

The faster your company is growing, the harder it is to advocate for diversity initiatives because it <em>takes more time.</em> As a manager or leader, you're taking on the task of <em>change management</em> and that involves education and a considerable amount of change in process.

This pressure is especially felt in hiring, where someone needs to fill a role (presumably fast) and insistence on anything else makes you the blocker.

## Tech culture, in general

The dominant culture is one touting meritocracy and tends to avoid discussing biases everyone holds. This makes conversations around the topic especially contentious when employees feel that despite their merit, they are being replaced by another candidate because of a quota.

General apathy is also a problem–your problem doesn't seem like my problem so it's not anyone's problem. Except, when it's no one's problem, nothing gets done.

## There's not enough canaries in the coal mine

This is a pretty old explanation, but it does have some truth to it. Because the dominanting culture is reinforced so strongly, miniorities tend to drop out of the industry before they're even at the job market and even if they get to the finish line so-to-speak, they drop out at higher rates.

## There's not enough air for the canaries anyway

Even if we were given the appropriate amount of candidates to screen, it requires an especially strong management team to keep them engaged in a environment they may not feel welcome in. 

## Safe places

Safe places tend to have a double-edged sword in which it looks like you're getting together to conspire against the majority and/or create a different feel for those who look different, thus alientating them further. 

## Lack of experience

A lot of managers simply aren't well-versed in this area, myself included. The literature about the topic can be found in other industries and books (the ones I've found that have helped I've listed at the bottom), but as far as I know aren't part of the training when you become a design manager or leader.

## Lack of respect

Taking on diversity in a company is a huge endeavor especially in a climate in which it's generally seen as a threat. It's typically best suited for someone working on it full-time. The issue is, that in certain situations, tech has generally florified technical expertise over people expertise.

As the company grows, you cannot hold onto the idea that the individual contributors are the only ones that matter. Having no managers in your company is not something to be proud of, it's a warning sign.

It's a lot. The one area I focused on last year was hiring (the canaries in the coal mine) and the Paula principle.

## The Actual, Hard Decision

This is the hypothetical situation always posed to me, but I've never actually experienced in real life: 
What if you have two equally qualified candidates (unlikely), which one do you give it to?

# Hiring

Here's the things you can do:

## Look at all your ouward-facing company marketing

- Are there pcitures of just one type of person in all your company collateral?
- Do you only talk about ping pong, ninjas, and pizza?
- When your company recruits, are you only looking at events that serve beer?
- What type of events are your company attending?
- Who is representing your company at those events?

## How you accept applications

- What's your career page talking about?
- Blinding portfolios
- Blinding applications
- Pooling candidates
- Group discussions

## How you talk about hiring internally

- Are your employees only referring their friends?
- Run diversity sprints to encourage employees to add candidates into your system they wouldn'tn ormally think of
- Inflate visibiilty artifically
- How to talk to a company about diversity

# Rentention and the Paula Principle

Dvierse begets more diversity. People tend to recruit people who are like themselves and they tend to perform better reporting when they have a role model to aspire to. If your leadership team is filled with mostly white men, and they take the space, it is unlikely that a miniority will take that spot and it's unlikely that your minority ranks will change in numbers.

The Paula Principle expalation goe shere

When looking at people to advance to a leadership position, consider grooming someone in a miniority group and/or looking at the growth rates of everyone on your team. If you have two equally qualified candidates, and there's only one position

## Ensure that your expectations are clear for each role

## Use internal open applications

## Pay attention in promotion discussions

## Identify potential early, and groom

## culture activities for everyone

# Doing Better, Together

## At the company level
- A clear and consistent message has to come from upper management, or it won't gain the traction it needs to grow (top down and bottom up)
- having frequent discussions about diversity and inclusion
- Mentioning it frequently as a dimenion that you're trying to improve across the company


## At the manager level
- Read as much as you can about the topic, because it's inevitably going to come up in hiring, interviewing, ad other processes you participate in everyday
- if you're lucky enough, recruit an executive or diversity lead to help you out with change management
- Lay out for your reports exactly what needs to happen for them to get to where they want to be. If this is something that is unclear to you, make the expectations clearer
- Resist

## As a colleague
- In group settings, so particularly mindful of who is holding the floor and taking the space
- If a situation wouldn't help you, but would help someone else greatly, consider letting them take the opportunity
- Support your colleagues who are doing well, very loudly, to them and to their manager

## As a stewart in the community
- Educate, educate, educate
- Make clear what you will and will not tolerate in teh community you're part of by being verbal about it, using conduct codes you enforce, and calling things out when things seem unfair

# Dealing with the emotional aspect of it all

Admittedly, this is a really overwhelming topic for me and I would be lying if said it wasn't a heavy weight I felt very kneely at my last position. It was exhausting and I hated having to repeat myself over and over again, and I especially hated having to deal with some pretty bigoted responses about the whole thing. Over time, it gets easier to deal with the knee-jerk responses of the industry. Over time, it gets easier to let certain comments roll off your back... even if they come from people you love or respect.

After having thought about this a considerable anount, thhe biggest advice that I can give you is that you should take some time to take care of yourself too and get some fresh air every so often. In the end, it's a marathon, not a sprint and any sort of social change requires lots of patience. Perhaps this is more a note to me more than anyone, but I do not have particularly large reserves of patience for the apathetic about this topic.

Be careful about how you're spneing yoru time. You can spend it arguing with one person on eht einternet, or you can focus your time on how to affect change within a community around you in more constructive ways. 

If you know anyone who has taken on this burden, you should probably let them know you appreciate what they're doing.

There are tons of stuff that I haven't covered here so I've included a list of resources below which may help start you reresearch into the area too. I hope something somewhere in this article will be helpful to you. Good luck.

# Resources

Here's a pretty random list of things that can be pretty helpful in navigating this time for you: 
- INterview with that guy on Reply All
- https://www.hiremorewomenintech.com/
- Here's a folder of like, 50 studies about womeni in the workforce, in case you're interested in learning about that
- This website with the book from TWG & The Girl who hates you on twitter for no reason
- People who talk about this stuff pretty often: Brianna Wu, Susan Fowler, etc. etc.