This post is my first follow-up to my most recent post about self-efficacy. I covered Bandura's theory on building self-efficacy there.

While my thoughts on performance are generally gender-neutral, it's important to explore why it's different between men and women. One of the studies I read quite recently about how children are raised says this,

> 

Essentially, as women are raised, they are not socialized to take risks. This has cascading effects on them as they enter the workforce–they lack experience which could be built during their childhood (not necessarily labelled as work) and find themselves attempting to catch up on it later. This informs how they ask for raises, how they advocate for themselves, and how feel fitting into an industry.

This last part, of course, is something I'm increasingly concerned about as I build out Jupiter. I want to scale a non-homogenous tech company in an industry where senior female talent is decreasing. 50/50 gender ratio is our desire and I am pessimistic about the likelihood we can hit it, especially on the Engineering team.

This week I want to tell my own story of self-efficacy.

## My Story

Both my parents had a laissez-faire approach to life: just do it. So, I wasn't one of the many who were raised to avoid risks until I left the confines of my house and started interacting with everyone else. I remember being told I wasn't good at sports(2) and that I shouldn't bother.

It reminds me a lot of this commercial here,

> Dove commercial, run like a girl

I'm willing to bet this isn't unfamiliar to other women either.

Life went a little haywire for me in my twenties and I started to hike because I didn't know what else to do with myself. I thought I wasn't good at anything sporty so hiking seemed like the most approachable activity: just walk. After a year of day hiking through my own depression and attempting to make something of life, I found the Kungsleden trail in Sweden.

> Picture of you on the trail + instagram post

I found it on a blog while Googling for trails. I was going to be around there for a conference and it seemed like it was destined that I walk it. Why else would it show up in Google?(3) I didn't think I could do it but I prepared as best I could and off I went.



I walked my first 100km backpacking trip alone. It took me under a week. When I finally cleared the hill towards the final mountain hut, I ordered a beer, connected to the internet for the first time in a week, and couldn't stop smiling. I'd never been so happy before in my life. I met my maker somewhere on that trail and it changed everything.

<hr class="small">

Hiking made the difference.  
Backpacking made a bigger difference.  
Doing it alone made all the difference.

Somewhere on the trail I found something I had never thought was in me and it was further reinforced by the amazement expressed by people I met along the way. From then on, I would hike even harder trails: in all conditions, at extreme heights, on all continents, and become relentless in my pursuit for self-challenge.

This hobby changed my career and helped frame hard work and effort in a way I understood. I wasn't connecting with Silicon Valley-esque ambition; I connected with my steps, one after another, and it walked me towards finish lines I never thought I'd reach.

From there, I went on to invest myself in bodybuilding, my studies, and into Jupiter taking the trail lessons with me: one step at a time.

## Hard work and play

I'm telling this story because encouraging people to live outside of their careers and explore other topics and areas to build self-efficacy is just as important as building environments within the workplace, too.

Everyone in tech hears the same hustle-porn story: work hard and you will be rewarded. No one ever talks about what hard work means or the various ways it can be achieved. These activities formed in me my fundamental goal-setting skills, my discipline, and my patience to delay rewards and prioritize it over short-term gains.

My self-efficacy came from outside my career; from exactly what the researchers identify: risky ventures taken during play.